Set up External Portal Application Authentication with Azure AD OIDC (#2300)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/azure-oidc-config.md

---

## Overview

These instructions help you set up Azure AD as your third-party identity provider
for use with the Kong OIDC and Portal Application Registration plugins.

### Prerequisites

- The `portal_app_auth` configuration option is configured for your OAuth provider
  and strategy (`kong-oauth2` or `external-oauth2`). See
  [Configure the Authorization Provider Strategy](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/#portal-app-auth) for the Portal Application Registration plugin.

## Create an Application in Azure

1. Within Azure, go to the **App Registrations** service and register a new application.

   ![Azure App Registrations](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/ms-azure-app-reg.png)

1. In **Certificates & secrets**, create a Client secret and save it in a
   secure location. You can only view the secret once.

1. Under **Manifest**, update `accessTokenAcceptedVersion=2` (default is null).
   The JSON for your application should look similar to this example:

  ![Azure Manifest](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/azure-manifest.png)

## Create a Service and a Route in Kong

> 1. Create a Service example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Service. For example:
```

>    ```bash

Reviewer: Most of the examples in our docs are in cURL, or in both cURL and HTTPie. We don't normally do HTTPie only. Can you turn these examples into cURL and HTTPie tabs, at the section level (right under the header)?

For example, this command would be the following in cURL:
```
curl -i -X PUT http://<admin-server>:8001/services/httpbin-service-azure2 \
   --data 'url=https://httpbin.org/'
```
You don't absolutely need `-i`, but it makes the output easier to read.

Author: @lena-larionova yes we can show cURL as well. I had mentioned that to @aaronhmiller. The OIDC example uses Kong Manager GUI and doesn't show any commands. So we need to be consistent (something for me to keep in mind for the 3rd party/OIDC updates PR). I'm not sure if we'll get to publish/keep these IdP-specific examples.

I don't have anything set up in azure. I'll need someone to look over my guesses at converting httpie -> curl.

Author: I think your example above has an extraneous 2 in `azure2`

>    http put :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure url=https://httpbin.org/anything

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ http PUT :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure \
      url=https://httpbin.org/anything
```
Capitalize the method for consistency.

You can format any bash command example with `\` to denote arbitrary line breaks for readability. They won't change anything in the command itself, as long as you break in the middle of a name or a URL, for example.

   ```

> 1. Create a Route example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Route. For example:
```

   ```bash

>    http -f put :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure/routes/httpbin-route-azure paths=/httpbin-azure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ http -f PUT :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure/routes/httpbin-route-azure \
      paths=/httpbin-azure
```

   ```

## Map the OIDC and Application Registration Plugins to the Service

Map the OpenID Connect and Application Registration plugins to the **Service**.
The plugins must be applied to a Service to work properly.

1. Configure the OIDC plugin for the Service:

   ```bash

>    http -f :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure/plugins name=openid-connect config.issuer=https://login.microsoftonline.com/<your_tenant_id>/v2.0 config.display_errors=true config.client_id=<your_client_id> config.client_secret="<your_client_secret>" config.consumer_claim=aud config.scopes=openid config.scopes=<your_client_id>/.default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ http -f :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure/plugins \
     name=openid-connect \
     config.issuer=https://login.microsoftonline.com/<your_tenant_id>/v2.0 \
     config.display_errors=true \
     config.client_id=<your_client_id> \
     config.client_secret="<your_client_secret>" \
     config.consumer_claim=aud \
     config.scopes=openid \
     config.scopes=<your_client_id>/.default
```

   ```

1. Configure the Application Registration plugin for the Service:

   ```bash

>    http -f :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure/plugins name=application-registration config.auto_approve=true config.display_name="For Azure" config.description="Uses consumer claim with various values (sub, aud, etc.) as registration id to support different flows and use cases." config.show_issuer=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ http -f :8001/services/httpbin-service-azure/plugins \
      name=application-registration \
      config.auto_approve=true \
      config.display_name="For Azure" \
      config.description="Uses consumer claim with various values (sub, aud, etc.) as registration id to support different flows and use cases." \
      config.show_issuer=true
```

   ```

1. Get an access token using the Client Credential workflow and convert the token
   into a JSON Web Token (JWT). You can get the token from Azure or Kong. Replace
   the placeholder values for `<your_tenant_id>`, `<your_client_id>`, and `<your_client_secret>`.

>    - Get a token from Azure:

Reviewer: We currently have a bug in the output that reads unordered lists as implicit entries in an ordered list, so the numbering is broken. Change this entry and the following one to either a definition list or a numbered list (see https://deploy-preview-2300--kongdocs.netlify.app/hub/plugins/overview/#terminology for example formatting for a definition list).

Author: > We currently have a bug in the output that reads unordered lists as implicit entries in an ordered list, so the numbering is broken. Change this entry and the following one to either a definition list or a numbered list (see https://deploy-preview-2300--kongdocs.netlify.app/hub/plugins/overview/#terminology for example formatting for a definition list).

@lena-larionova I didn't even notice this at first. I just fixed this issue in another ticket for the dev portal. So this is an either or situation, so ul was perfect, numbered list is not appropriate here. Will this bug be fixed in the future? I could just use indents in the interim, or defn list.

Reviewer: Yes, it'll be fixed in the future, once we either get Vlad to do it or I figure it out. Indents or definition list will work in the interim.

     ```bash

>      https -f POST "https://login.microsoftonline.com/<your_tenant_id>/oauth2/v2.0/token" scope=<your_client_id>/.default grant_type=client_credentials -a <your_client_id>:<your_client_secret>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     $ https -f POST "https://login.microsoftonline.com/<your_tenant_id>/oauth2/v2.0/token" \
        scope=<your_client_id>/.default \
        grant_type=client_credentials \
        -a <your_client_id>:<your_client_secret>
```

     ```   

   - Get a token from Kong:

     ```bash

>      https -f POST "https://localhost:8443/httpbin-azure/oauth2/v2.0/token" grant_type=client_credentials -a <your_client_id>:<your_client_secret> --verify NO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     $ https -f POST "https://localhost:8443/httpbin-azure/oauth2/v2.0/token" \
        grant_type=client_credentials \
        -a <your_client_id>:<your_client_secret> \
        --verify NO
```
Should `localhost` really be used here? Can we replace it with <admin-hostname>? Same goes for all other examples using localhost in this topic.

Author: Done in commit ae436d7

     ```

1. Paste the access token obtained from the previous step into
   [JWT](https://jwt.io), and copy the value for the
   [aud (audience)](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7519#section-4.1.3) claim to
   your clipboard. You will use the `aud` value as your **Reference ID** for the next step.

## Create an Application in Kong

1. Log in to your Developer Portal and create a new application:

>    - Select the **My Apps** menu -> **New Application**.

Reviewer: Same issue as a previous comment; turn this list into a numbered list.

Author: Done in commit 772e294

   - Paste the `aud` value generated in JWT in the **Reference ID** field.
   - (Optional) Enter a **Description**.

   The Create Application form should look similar to this example:

   ![Create Azure Application](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/azure-app.png)

2. Click **Create**.

3. After you create your application, make sure you activate the Service. In the
   Services section of the Application Dashboard, click **Activate** on the Service
   you want to use.

   The view application details page should look similar to this example:

   ![Azure Example Application](/assets/images/docs/dev-portal/azure-app-details.png)

   Because you enabled
   [Auto-approve](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/administration/application-registration/enable-application-registration##aa)
   on the associated Application Registration Plugin, an admin won't need to
   approve the request.

## Test your Authentication Flows with your Azure Application

Follow these instructions to test your client credentials or authorization code
flows with your Azure AD implementation.

### Test Client Credentials Flow

1. Get a token:

   ```bash

>    https -f POST "https://localhost:8443/httpbin-azure/oauth2/v2.0/token" grant_type=client_credentials -a <your_client_id>:<your_client_secret> --verify NO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ https -f POST "https://localhost:8443/httpbin-azure/oauth2/v2.0/token" \
      grant_type=client_credentials \
      -a <your_client_id>:<your_client_secret> \
      --verify NO
```

   ```

2. Use the token in an authorization header to retrieve the data:

   ```bash

>    http :8000/httpbin-azure Authorization:'bearer <token_from_above>'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ http :8000/httpbin-azure Authorization:'bearer <token_from_above>'
```

   ```

   Replace `<token_from_above>` with the bearer token you generated in the previous step.

### Test Authorization Code Flow

In your browser, go to `http://localhost:8000/httpbin-azure`. Replace `localhost`
with your host information.

> You should be guided through a log in process within Azure and then the results
> delivered in your browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If authorization setup was successful, you should be guided through a log in process within Azure.
```
I don't think you need the last part of the sentence here, but that's up to you.

Author: stet on Aaron's content
